server/README.md, before:

# HLS WebSocket CDN - Server

This the main backend component for **HLS WebSocket CDN**, implemented in golang.

## Compilation

In order to install dependencies, type:

```sh
go get .
```

To compile the code type:

```sh
go build .
```

The build command will create a binary in the current directory, called `server`, or `server.exe` if you are using Windows.

## Docker image

You can find the docker image for this project available in Docker Hub: https://hub.docker.com/r/asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn

To pull it type:

```sh
docker pull asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn
```

Example compose file:

```yaml
version: "3.7"

services:
  cdn_server:
    image: asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      #- '443:443'
    environment:
      # Configure it using env vars:
      - LOG_INFO=YES
      - LOG_DEBUG=NO
```

## Configuration

You can configure the server using environment variables.

### Log configuration

| Variable       | Description                                                                                                        |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `LOG_ERROR`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `ERROR` messages                  |
| `LOG_WARNING`  | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `WARNING` messages                |
| `LOG_INFO`     | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `INFO` messages                   |
| `LOG_REQUESTS` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `INFO` messages for HTTP requests |
| `LOG_DEBUG`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `DEBUG` messages                   |
| `LOG_TRACE`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `TRACE` messages                   |

### Server configuration (HTTP)

| Variable            | Description                                                                                    |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `HTTP_ENABLED`      | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the HTTP server (enabled by default). |
| `HTTP_PORT`         | The port number for the HTTP server (80 by default)                                            |
| `HTTP_BIND_ADDRESS` | The bind address for the HTTP server (Leave empty to listen on all network interfaces)         |

### Server configuration (HTTPS, HTTP over TLS)

| Variable                   | Description                                                                                     |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TLS_ENABLED`              | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the HTTPS server (enabled by default). |
| `TLS_PORT`                 | The port number for the HTTPS server (443 by default)                                           |
| `TLS_BIND_ADDRESS`         | The bind address for the HTTPS server (Leave empty to listen on all network interfaces)         |
| `TLS_CERTIFICATE`          | Path to the X.509 certificate for TLS                                                           |
| `TLS_PRIVATE_KEY`          | Path to the private key for TLS                                                                 |
| `TLS_CHECK_RELOAD_SECONDS` | Number of seconds to check for changes in the certificate or key (for auto renewal)             |

### Websocket protocol configuration

| Variable                  | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `EXTERNAL_WEBSOCKET_URL`  | External websocket URL of the server, for other servers to connect with it. If empty, it will be automatically detected from the network interfaces. |
| `WEBSOCKET_PREFIX`        | Path clients must use to connect to the server. By default: `/`.                                                                                     |
| `MAX_BINARY_MESSAGE_SIZE` | When handling binary messages, what is the limit for them, in bytes. Default: 50 MB.                                                                 |

### Publish registry (Redis)

| Variable                           | Description                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_ENABLED`            | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the redis publish registry. |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_HOST`               | Redis host. Default: `127.0.0.1`                                                     |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_PORT`               | Redis port. Default: `6379`                                                          |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_PASSWORD`           | Password to authenticate to the Redis server.                                        |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_USE_TLS`            | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to use TLS to connect to Redis.       |
| `PUB_REG_REFRESH_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | Number of seconds to refresh publish registry entries. Default `60` seconds.         |

### Relay

| Variable             | Description                                                                           |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `RELAY_FROM_ENABLED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to enable relaying streams from another server. |
| `RELAY_FROM_URL`     | Websocket URL of another server to relay HLS streams from.                            |

### Authentication

| Variable       | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PULL_SECRET`  | Secret to sign and validate the authentication tokens for pulling the streams. |
| `PUSH_SECRET`  | Secret to sign and validate the authentication tokens for pushing the streams. |
| `PUSH_ALLOWED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to allow pushing streams to the server.  |

### Memory limiter

By default, the server will store fragments in a buffer to send to new clients immediately. However, this can increase the memory usage, and result in a crash if the machine memory is fully used.

To prevent, that, the server allows you to configure a limit. When this limit is reached, the buffering will be degraded, but the CDN will still work. The impact on the user will be only a later wait time to play the stream when they connect.

Make sure to not set the limit too close to the total memory of the machine, as memory is also needed for other tasks and processes.

| Variable                        | Description                                                         |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BUFFER_MEMORY_LIMITER_ENABLED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to enable the memory limiter. |
| `BUFFER_MEMORY_LIMIT_MB`        | Memory limit for fragment buffers in megabytes. Default: `256`      |

## Other options

| Variable                     | Description                                                                           |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `FRAGMENT_BUFFER_MAX_LENGTH` | Max number of fragments to keep in the buffer for new pull connections. Default: `10` |

## Health check

You can check for the server health by sending an `HTTP GET` request to any other path that is not the websocket path. The server will return a `200 OK` response with the body `OK - HLS Websocket CDN`.

Commit message:

Server: Implement rate limiting
closes #1

server/README.md, after:

# HLS WebSocket CDN - Server

This the main backend component for **HLS WebSocket CDN**, implemented in golang.

## Compilation

In order to install dependencies, type:

```sh
go get .
```

To compile the code type:

```sh
go build .
```

The build command will create a binary in the current directory, called `server`, or `server.exe` if you are using Windows.

## Docker image

You can find the docker image for this project available in Docker Hub: https://hub.docker.com/r/asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn

To pull it type:

```sh
docker pull asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn
```

Example compose file:

```yaml
version: "3.7"

services:
  cdn_server:
    image: asanrom/hls-websocket-cdn
    ports:
      - "80:80"
      #- '443:443'
    environment:
      # Configure it using env vars:
      - LOG_INFO=YES
      - LOG_DEBUG=NO
```

## Configuration

You can configure the server using environment variables.

### Log configuration

| Variable       | Description                                                                                                        |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `LOG_ERROR`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `ERROR` messages                  |
| `LOG_WARNING`  | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `WARNING` messages                |
| `LOG_INFO`     | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `INFO` messages                   |
| `LOG_REQUESTS` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `YES`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `INFO` messages for HTTP requests |
| `LOG_DEBUG`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `DEBUG` messages                   |
| `LOG_TRACE`    | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Default: `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable logging `TRACE` messages                   |

### Server configuration (HTTP)

| Variable            | Description                                                                                    |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `HTTP_ENABLED`      | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the HTTP server (enabled by default). |
| `HTTP_PORT`         | The port number for the HTTP server (80 by default)                                            |
| `HTTP_BIND_ADDRESS` | The bind address for the HTTP server (Leave empty to listen on all network interfaces)         |

### Server configuration (HTTPS, HTTP over TLS)

| Variable                   | Description                                                                                     |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `TLS_ENABLED`              | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the HTTPS server (enabled by default). |
| `TLS_PORT`                 | The port number for the HTTPS server (443 by default)                                           |
| `TLS_BIND_ADDRESS`         | The bind address for the HTTPS server (Leave empty to listen on all network interfaces)         |
| `TLS_CERTIFICATE`          | Path to the X.509 certificate for TLS                                                           |
| `TLS_PRIVATE_KEY`          | Path to the private key for TLS                                                                 |
| `TLS_CHECK_RELOAD_SECONDS` | Number of seconds to check for changes in the certificate or key (for auto renewal)             |

### Websocket protocol configuration

| Variable                  | Description                                                                                                                                          |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `EXTERNAL_WEBSOCKET_URL`  | External websocket URL of the server, for other servers to connect with it. If empty, it will be automatically detected from the network interfaces. |
| `WEBSOCKET_PREFIX`        | Path clients must use to connect to the server. By default: `/`.                                                                                     |
| `MAX_BINARY_MESSAGE_SIZE` | When handling binary messages, what is the limit for them, in bytes. Default: 50 MB.                                                                 |

### Publish registry (Redis)

| Variable                           | Description                                                                          |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_ENABLED`            | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to enable the redis publish registry. |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_HOST`               | Redis host. Default: `127.0.0.1`                                                     |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_PORT`               | Redis port. Default: `6379`                                                          |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_PASSWORD`           | Password to authenticate to the Redis server.                                        |
| `PUB_REG_REDIS_USE_TLS`            | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` in order to use TLS to connect to Redis.       |
| `PUB_REG_REFRESH_INTERVAL_SECONDS` | Number of seconds to refresh publish registry entries. Default `60` seconds.         |

### Relay

| Variable             | Description                                                                           |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `RELAY_FROM_ENABLED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to enable relaying streams from another server. |
| `RELAY_FROM_URL`     | Websocket URL of another server to relay HLS streams from.                            |

### Authentication

| Variable       | Description                                                                    |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `PULL_SECRET`  | Secret to sign and validate the authentication tokens for pulling the streams. |
| `PUSH_SECRET`  | Secret to sign and validate the authentication tokens for pushing the streams. |
| `PUSH_ALLOWED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to allow pushing streams to the server.  |

### Rate limit

In order to prevent DoS attacks, a measure you can take is to limit the rate of requests per client IP address.

Note: Only use if the CDN server is exposed to the internet. If you are using a proxy. Do the rate limiting in the proxy, since it is the backend element closer to the client and probably has better rate limiting capabilities.

| Variable                 | Description                                                                                        |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `RATE_LIMIT_ENABLED`     | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to enable rate limiting.                                     |
| `RATE_LIMIT_WHITELIST`   | List of IP ranges not affected by the rate limit. Split by commas. Example: `127.0.0.1,10.0.0.0/8` |
| `RATE_LIMIT_CONNECTIONS` | Max number of active connections per unique client IP address. `0` means no limit.                 |
| `RATE_LIMIT_REQ_PER_SEC` | Max number of request per second per unique client IP address. `0` means no limit                  |
| `RATE_LIMIT_REQ_BURST`   | Excess requests a client can make. If the client sends exceeds requests, it must wait more time.   |
| `RATE_LIMIT_REQ_CLEANUP` | Interval (seconds) to perform cleanup in the request counter. `10` by default.                     |

### Memory limiter

By default, the server will store fragments in a buffer to send to new clients immediately. However, this can increase the memory usage, and result in a crash if the machine memory is fully used.

To prevent, that, the server allows you to configure a limit. When this limit is reached, the buffering will be degraded, but the CDN will still work. The impact on the user will be only a later wait time to play the stream when they connect.

Make sure to not set the limit too close to the total memory of the machine, as memory is also needed for other tasks and processes.

| Variable                        | Description                                                         |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `BUFFER_MEMORY_LIMITER_ENABLED` | Can be `YES` or `NO`. Set it to `YES` to enable the memory limiter. |
| `BUFFER_MEMORY_LIMIT_MB`        | Memory limit for fragment buffers in megabytes. Default: `256`      |

## Other options

| Variable                     | Description                                                                           |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `FRAGMENT_BUFFER_MAX_LENGTH` | Max number of fragments to keep in the buffer for new pull connections. Default: `10` |

## Health check

You can check for the server health by sending an `HTTP GET` request to any other path that is not the websocket path. The server will return a `200 OK` response with the body `OK - HLS Websocket CDN`.
